In the first attempt at this project I tried to represent every possible game with certain properties I knew I wanted, then sample from that space. This did not work because the space I was trying to sample was too large. So In this attempt I am trying to narrow the space that the generator is exploring at any one time, but I would still like to keep the space of potential games producible by the program large. So I am planning to have the program choose some aspects of the game every time it generates something. This brings up another point: the previous attempt didn't really "evolve games" in any specific sense. So in this attempt I plan to rate games as they are produced and keep a record of those ratings and use those to influence the probability of choices being made.

One worry is that the decisions I come up with for the program to choose between, (and the order I put them in) will encode my biases. However, if I remain the only one working on this, I don't see much alternative, and at least I would likely enjoy the games? Every aspect of the program should be potentially up for revision, so hopefully anything problematic can be fixed later if need be?

Another issue is that, while I can add a new choice to a list, in order for a game to be produced with that choice, I will need to implement it. Because I expect to come up with most choices for a given decision point at the same time, I expect I will end up adding options which are not implemented and which instead show a message stating that it has not been implemented. Then If I want to see the game that given seed would result in, I would have some more work to do. This may cause me to (perhaps subconsciously) avoid adding choices to the list that are harder to implement. I will have to try to fight against this impulse as much as I can.

Related to the "I have to actually implement it" issue, is the possibility of adding more and more choices but never actually getting to the point of generating a game. To combat this I will start off with the simplest game I can think of and add only the choices for that at first, so the whole system is known to work. The simplest game I can think of is "Find the win button". I considered making a "Walk to the exit" game but that would be slightly more complicated, and it has the possibility of making all the games have an player avatar, which I don't necessarily want. The "Find the win button game" is sufficiently boring that I will be forced to make extremely different kinds of choices so I definitely not be stuck in a rut making games that are similar to it.

___

After trying to come up with a set of goals for a game to have, I found myself coming back to types of goals that involve actor removal, which, it has been suggested, is something to be avoided. These goals also suggest games that if looked at as statements about the real world and/or the way the world should be, are abhorrent. Unfortunately I find myself inside a milieu where those kinds of goals are prevalent. I see two paths before me, ignore those problems with those goals and generate games with them, or try to find specific goals which do not have those problems and use those instead. I think I will try the second path. Even if I try to take the second path though, goals or other game aspects with undesirable characteristics may "sneak in" either through my own biases and imperfect attention or through generalizing out from the existing set of game elements I choose. There is only so much that can be done about my biases and human limitations, (though acknowledging them is helpful,) so I will focus my attention on generalizing out. I feel that this is an acceptable risk, given we honestly only encounter these through exploring all options rather than targeting them specifically. I feel this way because these kind of game elements *can* exist within a wholesome game if they are not taken to extremes and there are other kinds of elements available for recombination.

___

After partially implementing the program choosing from a small set of possibilities, then generating a program which implements it, I have found that when the choices presented is in the form of a number, (grid dimensions for example) the space can still be unnecessarily large if the options are approached naively. So I will now start using only part of the possible space allowed by other constraints. If a game is good, hopefully it is at least somewhat good with a less than optimal grid size. 